Welcome back
Let's continue building our RoboFriends app
Now, up to this point if you look at our index.js - well there was a lot of copy and pasting that
we did. If we had a lot of robot friends
imagine having hundreds of these that we have to constantly copy and paste
That's not very efficient is it?
Also if you remember our diagram over here of one way data flow we always had a parent such as an app
component that had children that have their own children and so on and so forth
So using that knowledge we can have one big app component that have different children so that we make each
component small and reusable
Let's go back to our example. Now that we have ‘robot.js’ we ideally can list all these 10 users
The way we do that - let's have a ‘CardList’ component so that if we import a ‘CardList’ component which is
a parent of ‘Card’, then we can just render that instead of all these cards
So I'll say ‘CardList’ and again we'll have to create it. So I’ll say new file, ‘CardList.js’
again changing it to our ‘Babel’ syntax - we’ll do import ‘React’ from ‘react’ and I'll make this a little
bit bigger
And again we'll just say ‘const’, ‘CardList’ equals - won't accept anything for now
But it will return..
Well what should it return?
It should return the cards, right?
We can just copy and paste this
put this in here
Let's fix the indentation here a bit
Now ‘CardList’ will be the one that returns these cards and ‘index.html’
will just render ‘Cardlist’
If I save this - well I'll guess that ‘card’ isn't being used so we can remove it
And ‘robots’ aren't being used
But we can use the ‘robots’ now to pass that, as ‘robots’
equals the ‘robots’ array. ‘CardList’ is accepting a ‘robots’ prop
If I save this, everything's working but I'm getting this error because well as you can see, we didn't export
If we go back to the Cardlist, export, default - and hopefully by now you're starting to get the hang of it
There's a lot of repetition here but each time, as long as you learn the syntax, we're creating these
components nicely. And we get a ton of errors because we don't have any access to ‘robots’ and IDs and, well
card for that matter either
So let's import a card from - again same directory -
‘Card.js’
Robots isn't defined
We know that ‘CardList’ receives robots now
So I have access to it in the ‘props’ or I can destructure it and say that we have access to it
with ‘robots’. If I save this, look at that I have everything back the way it was
But it's not all of them is it?
We're only grabbing the 0, 1, 2
Only three of them
And as we saw on robots.js I have 10
Hm. How can we do this better?
Let's make this a little bit smaller so you can see. It looks like we want to do some sort of a loop
right?
We want to loop over the robots and create a card component for each one
How can we do that here in React?
Let's start off by adding another variable here. We'll call it ‘const’
‘cardComponent’
And within the ‘cardComponent’ we want to say that ‘robots’ - we want to
well what do we want to do? When we do a loop
as I've said before, we want to map, right?
We could do four each as well but I always recommend doing map
And within this map each robot
gets this
So we get a user every time we map through it. So we can say ‘user’
should return again, because a map needs to return, it returns this, right?
We want to return a card component. I can copy and paste this right here
and within the return I can just say now instead of robots index 0 - do we have the index? Well yeah because
you remember, the second parameter that we get in a map is the index
So I can say ‘user’ and ‘i’ for index
And now within ‘robots’ I'll say ‘i’ for index. Each time the first time around this will be zero then 1 then
2 all the way to 9 to include our 10 robots
Let's see if this actually works
If I add card component here.. You remember that we have to wrap it in curly brackets because it's javascript
so it knows to evaluate
If I save this, looks like it's compiling successfully, I go back and
Holy moly
We got ourselves a card array
How cool is that!
That was incredibly fast to do
We just used our common sense and Javascript knowledge
Just used ‘map’, to return multiple components
I hope you realize how powerful that is and that is why React is so popular right now
We're able to use Javascript to return these HTML elements and do things really really fast
If I open up the console here I'll see that I get a warning
Each child in an array or iterator should have a unique key prop and there's a link to it if you
want to read up more on it
This is a special case that you just have to remember. When working with react the way the virtual DOM
works is it keeps track of what all these cards are
But without having something called a key prop, if some of these cards get deleted, React won't know
which one’s which and we’ll have to change the entire DOM. Versus if it had a key prop that says ‘oh this one
gets removed’
I can just remove this from the DOM. Remember we want to minimize the amount of work that we do to the
DOM
So when you do a loop it's just something you have to remember
You have to give it a unique key. In our case
We can just say ‘i’ which is index
If we save this
Oops we have to wrap it in curly brackets again
because it's Javascript. And there you go
Now we don't have the error any more
And let's just make this on a new line, just so it looks prettier
And because we're returning it on multiple lines we want to wrap this in a bracket, right?
Alright. And that's better
So this is working nicely, as we want it
I want to show you one thing. Because this is Javascript - anything we put in these curly brackets is
javascript including comments -
Well we can just copy and paste this entire thing
Remove the constant and just add it within the brackets
If I save this, it should still work, like it does
And this is another power of React. React makes you a really really good javascript programmer because
other than this JSX syntax everything else is just javascript
So we are able to create a CardLList component that lists cards and all we need to do is pass it a prop
of robots. And we just made this a ton cleaner
Very cool
All right that's it for this video
More things will happen in the next one
See you in that one
Bye-bye